feat: rework scraping and assertions page [sc-13504] (#661)
checkly/checklyhq.com: site/content/docs/browser-checks/scraping-onpage-elements.md

---
title: Scraping & asserting on page elements
description: How to scrape web page elements like texts, buttons and forms with Google Chrome and Playwright Test.
weight: 15
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "Browser checks"
---

Any standard Node.js script that successfully finishes an execution is a valid, passing browser check. However, in
many cases, you want to validate whether the session shows the right stuff to the user.

This is a two-step process:

> 1. Scrape the relevant item from the current page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Identify the relevant element on the current page.
```

2. Assert that it shows what you expect.

Playwright Test offers many ways to scrape elements like buttons, forms or any arbitrary HTML element. We've listed the most
common ones below, together with some tips on how to use them effectively.

## Scraping text values

> Playwright Test uses Jest's [`expect`](https://jestjs.io/docs/expect) library for test assertions. Playwright also extends it with convenience async matchers that will wait until the expected condition is met.

Reviewer: This intro to expect should go to the intro section of the page. Please add a mention of web-first assertions and a link to PWT docs https://playwright.dev/docs/test-assertions#list-of-assertions

For text assertions, you can use `expect().toHaveText()` or `expect().toContainText()`. The first one will look for an exact match, while the latter will check for a substring match. Both methods accept regex patterns too. The example below shows how these could be used in a real-world scenario:

{{< tabs "Scraping text values" >}}
{{< tab "TypeScript" >}}
 ```ts
import { test, expect } from '@playwright/test'

test('Checkly API Docs search input has a keyboard shortcut info', async ({ page }) => {

>   await page.goto('https://developers.checklyhq.com/')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  await page.goto('https://developers.checklyhq.com/') // 1
```

>   const searchBox = page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Search' })

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  const searchBox = page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Search' }) // 2
```

>   await expect(searchBox).toContainText('CTRL-K')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  await expect(searchBox).toContainText('CTRL-K') // 3
```

})
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "JavaScript" >}}
 ```js
const { test, expect } = require('@playwright/test')

test('Checkly API Docs search input has a keyboard shortcut info', async ({ page }) => {
  await page.goto('https://developers.checklyhq.com/')

  const searchBox = page.getByRole('button', { name: 'Search' })

  await expect(searchBox).toContainText('CTRL-K')
})
 ```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

Ok, let's break this down:

1. We require `@playwright/test` library, declare a test block and go to the Checkly docs page.
2. We use `page.getByRole()` and pass it two arguments:
  - A role of the element
  - An object with `name` property - it will narrow the search to an element with a matching text, or in this case, `aria-label` attribute 
3. We expect the `searchBox` element to contain `CTRL-K` text (a keyboard shortcut info)

## Scraping a list of values

> Playwright Test makes it easy to work with [lists of elements](https://playwright.dev/docs/locators#lists). The `getByX()` methods will return a list, if multiple elements match the parameters. You could then assert the count, text or perform additional filtering on the elements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Playwright Test makes it easy to work with [lists of elements using locators](https://playwright.dev/docs/locators#lists). The `getByX()` methods will return a list, if multiple elements match the parameters. You could then assert the count, text or perform additional filtering on the elements:
```

{{< tabs "Scraping list values" >}}
{{< tab "TypeScript" >}}
```ts
import { expect, test } from '@playwright/test'

test('Find "Advanced" sections on playwright docs page', async ({ page }) => {
  await page.goto('https://playwright.dev/docs/intro')

  const advancedSections = page.locator('.menu__link').filter({ hasText: /Advanced.+/i })

  await expect(advancedSections).toHaveCount(2)
  await expect(advancedSections).toHaveText(['Advanced: configuration', 'Advanced: fixtures'])
})
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< tab "JavaScript" >}}
```js
const { expect, test } = require('@playwright/test')

> test('Find "Advanced" sections on playwright docs page', async ({ page }) => {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
test('Find "Advanced" sections on the playwright docs page', async ({ page }) => {
```

>   await page.goto('https://playwright.dev/docs/intro')

Reviewer: please add `// 1` etc. comments to make it easier to understand the explanations

  const advancedSections = page.locator('.menu__link').filter({ hasText: /Advanced.+/i })

  await expect(advancedSections).toHaveCount(2)
  await expect(advancedSections).toHaveText(['Advanced: configuration', 'Advanced: fixtures'])
})
```
{{< /tab >}}
{{< /tabs >}}

1. We select all elements that have the CSS class `menu__link`. 
2. In the same line, we filter these elements to those that contain `Advanced` word

> 2. We assert the elements count

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. We assert the elements count
```

3. We assert that the exact text of these elements (`expect().toHaveText()` accepts arrays too!)

## Scraping form input elements

### Text input fields

Use the `locator.inputValue()` method to get the text from a standard text input field.

{{< tabs "locator.inputValue()" >}}
{{< tab "TypeScript" >}}
```ts
import { expect, test } from '@playwright/test'

> test('visit page and take screenshot', async ({ page }) => {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
test('Search "playwright" on the Duckduckgo search page', async ({ page }) => {
```
